Changes in flexclust version 0.99-0

  o qtclust() searched only for clusters with size>min.size 
    rather than the documented size>=min.size.

  o qtclust() now by default returns objects of class
    "kccasimple" which contains only a subset of the slots of regular
    "kcca" objects (and hence are much faster to compute). The new
    default was chosen because if the radius is chosen too small, the
    number of clusters can easily be very large.

  o show() now prints only summary statistics of cluster sizes if 
    there are more than 20 clusters.

  o The 'project' argument of the plot() method now also handles 'lda'
    objects correctly.

  o The barchart() method has several new arguments and is now much more 
    flexible.
 
  o Fixed two typos in data set dentitio ("ferret" was "ferrer", 
    "pygmy bat" was "pigmy bat").

  o Improved handling of color of cluster centroid labels in the plot method.

  o New "medium" color palette.

  o The was a bug in stepFlexclust() when using families with a 
    data pre-processing function like kccaFamily("angle").

  o The data matrix x can now be stored in the return object and is 
    then used automatically by the plot() method. 

  o New generic randomTour() with methods for data matrices and
    flexclust objects.

  o Renamed cluster() to clusters() to avoid conflict with cluster() 
    from package survival

  o The default hulls for clusters are now convex hulls rather than 
    ellipses, which can be misleading for non-Gaussian data.


Changes in flexclust version 0.9-1

  o new argument newdata for cluster()


Changes in flexclust version 0.9-0

  o kcca() and cclust() can now optionally return objects of class
    "kccasimple" which contains only a subset of the slots of regular
    "kcca" objects (basically only centers and cluster
    membership). Computation is faster, but no plotting methods are
    available.

  o Cluster membership vectors now preserve the rownames of the
    original data.

  o Fixed a bug in Jaccard distance computation and random break of
    ties for cluster assignment, both reported by Christian Buchta.

  o New barchart() method for visualization of centroids.

  o Utility function flxColors() can be used to access the flexclust color 
    palette. 


Changes in flexclust version 0.8-1

  o Fixed a bug in the definition of class "flexclustControl".
  

Changes in flexclust version 0.8-0

  o List ellipse as suggested package, use only when available.

  o Class "flexclust" has a new slot "clusinfo", which is modeled
    after the same slot of partition objects in package cluster. This
    replaces slots "size" and "withindist".

  o New generic info() can be used to obtain various pieces of
    information about a clustering.

  o New summary() method lists contents of clusinfo slot, show() method 
    only cluster sizes. 

  o Added details of neural gas learning paramters to 
    flexclustControl-class.Rd and fixed a type (number of parameters is 4, 
    not 3). 

  o New methods cluster() and parameters().

  o New function projAxes() to add arrows for original coordinate axes 
    to a projection plot. 

  o New pairs() method for matrix of neighborhood graphs.

  o New function dist2().

  o Improved performance of qtclust() and distCor().

  o barplot() now plots clusters by default in the same colors as
    plot().

  o Correct citation of the package is the forthcoming CSDA paper.

    
First version released on CRAN: 0.7-0
